[Music]
hi this is julian from minute earth
bamboo can grow as fast as 3
feet per day in fact when it comes to
upward growth
bamboo is the fastest growing plant on
earth
able to shoot up as tall as a 10 story
building in just
8 weeks giving pandas a new meaning to
the term
fast food the key to this absurdly fast
growth
is that despite its bamboozling height
and sturdiness bamboo
isn't a tree it's a very special grass
yup that's right bamboo along with wheat
rice and other grasses is a member of
the poissier family
unlike trees which grow taller through
the slow process of cell division
bamboo like all grasses just inflate the
cells it created before the shoot came
out of the ground each new bamboo shoot
is actually part of a larger system of
roots and canes
that works like a plumbing system
pumping water into the new shoot cells
the cells release a special chemical
that make their cell walls more flexible
and inflatable and the orientation of
the strands that make up these cell
walls
guide this fast growth straight up while
all grasses grow via the same cell
elongation process an unkempt lawn won't
end up towering over your house like a
bamboo grove would
that's because unlike most grasses whose
cell walls thin out and weaken
as they stretch bamboo is able to
deposit more layers to its cell walls
keeping the shoots sturdy enough to
withstand strong winds
even as it grows to immense heights it's
developed this ability in order to keep
pace with the trees and the forests
bamboo calls home
allowing it to get the necessary
sunlight to supercharge the growth of
even taller shoots next year
this firmly plants bamboo of the house
poissier
as the rightful queen of the forests the
unbent the breaker of records and mother
well at least nourisher of pandas
and if like bamboo you're all about
moving fast then you should get audible
which sponsors this video
with audible you can listen to any of
the thousands of available audiobooks
while commuting cooking or
even gardening if you're into dragons
and i am definitely into dragons
i recommend downloading the wings of
fire series in which a mysterious group
of young dragonets
are tasked with trying to stop a war
that's raging among various dragon
tribes
each with their own special traits it's
kind of like if giant violent sentient
galapagos finches
had been sorted into hogwarts houses and
then released on middle earth
to listen to wings of fire or any of the
other thousands of available titles
for free and to get free membership for
30 days plus two free audible originals
go to audible.com
minute earth or text minute earth to 500
that's audible.com minute earth or text
minute earth to 500
500 thanks audible